# Day 58 of ML 

## Jinja Template +  SQL Data Injection as blocks


JinjaSQL doesn't actually execute the query - it only prepares the query and the bind parameters. You can execute the query using any database engine / driver you are working with. JinjaSQL automatically binds parameters that are inserted into the template.After JinjaSQL evaluates the template, you get:

1. A Query with %s placeholders for the parameters
2. A List of values corresponding to the placeholders that need to be bound to the query

Use JinjaSQL for - 

1. Reporting, business intelligence or dashboard like use cases
1. When you need aggregation/group by
1. Use cases that require data from multiple tables
1. Migration scripts & bulk updates that would benefit from macros


In a python project, if you have two sql files with a lot of overlap - Create a base.sql and extend other sql's from this base.sql.

    from jinja2 import FileSystemLoader,Environment

    with open('sql/sql1.sql', 'r') as sql_file:
        sql = sql_file.read()
        # folder where all sqls including base.sql is stored
        template_folder=template_folder=os.path.join(
            os.path.dirname(__file__), 'sql'
        )
        template = Environment(loader=FileSystemLoader(template_folder)).from_string(sql)
        print(template.render())
        
        
base.sql

      select * from temp1;
      {%block part1%} {% endblock part1 %}
      
sql1.sql

      {% extends 'base.sql' %}

      {%block part1%}
      select * from temp2;
      {% endblock part1 %}
      
 ## Usage
 
 First, import the `JinjaSql` class and create an object. `JinjaSql` is thread-safe, so you can safely create one object at startup and use it everywhere.

```python
from jinjasql import JinjaSql
j = JinjaSql()
```
 
 Next, create your template query. You can use the full power of Jinja templates over here - macros, includes, imports, if/else conditions, loops, filters and so on. You can load the template from a file or from database or wherever else Jinja supports.
    
 ```python
template = """
    SELECT project, timesheet, hours
    FROM timesheet
    WHERE user_id = {{ user_id }}
    {% if project_id %}
    AND project_id = {{ project_id }}
    {% endif %}
"""
```

Create a context object. This object is a regular dictionary, and can contain nested dictionaries, lists or objects. The template query is evaluated against this context object.

```python
data = {
    "project_id": 123,
    "user_id": u"sripathi"
}
```

Finally, call the `prepare_query` method with the template and the context. You get back two things:

1. `query` is the generated SQL query. Variables are replaced by %s
1. `bind_params` is an array of parameters corresponding to the %s

```python
query, bind_params = j.prepare_query(template, data)
```

This is the query that is generated:
```python
expected_query = """
    SELECT project, timesheet, hours
    FROM timesheet
    WHERE user_id = %s
    
    AND project_id = %s
"""
```

And these are the bind parameters:
```python
self.assertEquals(bind_params, [u'sripathi', 123])
self.assertEquals(query.strip(), expected_query.strip())
```

## Multiple Param Styles ##
Per [PEP-249](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0249/), bind parameters can be specified in multiple ways. 
You can pass the optional constructor argument `param_style` to control
the style of query parameter.

1. **format** : `... where name = %s`. This is the default
1. **qmark** :  `where name = ?`
1. **numeric** : `where name = :1 and last_name = :2`
1. **named** : `where name = :name and last_name = :last_name`
1. **pyformat** : `where name = %(name)s and last_name = %(last_name)s`
1. **asyncpg** : `where name = $1 and last_name = $2`. This is not part of PEP-249 standard, but is used by [asyncpg library for postgres](https://magicstack.github.io/asyncpg/current/usage.html)

Here's how it works - 

```python
j = JinjaSql(param_style='named')
query, bind_params = j.prepare_query(template, data)
```

If param_style is `named` or `pyformat`, `bind_parameters` will be a python dictionary. For all other param styles, it will be a list.

In case of `named` and `pyformat`, remember the following:

1. `prepare_query` returns a dictionary instead of a list
1. The returned dictionary is flat, and only contains keys that are actually used in the query
1. The keys in the dictionary and in the query are guaranteed to have unique names. Even if you bind the same parameter twice, the key will be renamed


## Handling In Clauses ##
If you bind a list or tuple in query, JinjaSQL will raise 
a `MissingInClauseException`. JinjaSQL needs manual intervention - you have to apply the `|inclause` filter.

```sql
select 'x' from dual
where project_id in {{ project_ids | inclause }}
```
Notice that you don't need to enclose in parantheses.

JinjaSQL will automatically create the appropriate number of bind expressions.

## SQL Safe Strings ##
Sometimes, you want to insert dynamic table names/column names. By default, JinjaSQL will convert them to bind parameters. This won't work, because table and column names are usually not allowed in bind 
parameters.

In such cases, you can use the `|sqlsafe` filter. 

```sql
select {{column_names | sqlsafe}} from dual
```

If you use `sqlsafe`, it is your responsibility to ensure there is no sql injection.

      

**References**
------------
[1] https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62585635/how-to-use-extends-from-base-template-in-python-jinja2-when-writing-sql 
[2] https://github.com/sripathikrishnan/jinjasql
[3]
