# Day 126 of ML 


# Configs using Yaml 

The most common and standardized formats are YAML, JSON, TOML and INI. A good configuration file should meet at least these 3 criteria:

* **Easy to read and edit:** It should be text-based and structured in such a way that is easy to understand. Even non-developers should be able to read.
* **Allow comments:** Configuration file is not something that will be only read by developers. It is extremely important in production when non-developers try to understand the process and modify the software behavior. Writing comments is a way to quickly explain certain things, thus making the config file more expressive.
* **Easy to deploy:** Configuration file should be accepted by all the operating systems and environments. It should also be easily shipped to the server via a CDaaS pipeline.


* Move your information into a structured text file (json/yaml/etc.)
* Use properties in your config class to control mutability
* Implement runtime configurables as environmental variables

JSON is very similar to YAML and is extremely popular as well, however, it’s not possible to add comments in JSON. So use JSON a lot for internal config inside the program, but not when you want to share the config with other people.

 In the context of Python, then the answer would be YAML or INI. YAML and INI are well accepted by most of the Python programs and packages. INI is probably the most straightforward solution with only 1 level of the hierarchy. However, there is no data type in INI, everything is encoded as a string.
 
 TOML, on the other hand, is similar to INI, but supports more data types and has defined syntax for nested structures. It’s used a lot by Python package managements like pip or poetry. But if the config file has too many nested structures, YAML is a better choice


`pip install pyyaml`

```python

import yaml

article_info = [
    {
        'Details': {
        'domain' : 'www.tutswiki.com',
        'language': 'python',
        'date': '11/09/2020'
        }
    }
]

with open("tutswiki.yaml", "r") as yamlfile:
    data = yaml.load(yamlfile, Loader=yaml.FullLoader)
    print(data)
    print("Read successful")
    data[0]['Details']['language'] = 'java'
    print("Value of language updated from 'python' to 'java'")
    yamlfile.close()

with open("tutswiki.yaml", 'w') as yamlfile:
    data1 = yaml.dump(data, yamlfile)
    print(data)
    print("Write successful")
    yamlfile.close()
```



**References**
------------
[1]  
[2]