# Day 125 of ML 

## Python Libraries 

**Bamboolib** - Gives you a custom UI for Data analysis and exploration. Uses `Plotly Express` for some sophisticated data viz. 

    
    # Install bamboolib …
    !pip install — upgrade bamboolib — user
    # Jupyter Notebook extensions
    !python -m bamboolib install_nbextensions
    # Run this if you use Jupyterlab: JupyterLab extensions
    !python -m bamboolib install_labextensions

 ```python
# Import bamboolib, Pandas, and the Titanic dataset
import bamboolib as bam
import pandas as pd
df = pd.read_csv(bam.titanic_csv) 
```
 
**OpenDatasets** - Download kaggle datasets easily into the same folder as your notebook.
 
```python
# !pip install opendataset
import opendatasets as od 
od.download('kaggle_url')
```

**SweetViz** -  is a low-code Python library that generates beautiful visualizations to kickstart your exploratory data analysis with two lines of code. The output is an interactive EDA HTML file with information about the entire dataset and break it down so that you can analyze each feature individually. You can get the numerical and categorical association to other features, largest, smallest, and most frequent values. The visualization also changes depending on the data type.

```python
import Sweetviz as sv
my_report = sv.analyze(dataframe)
my_report.show_html()
```

**Lazy Predict** -   LazyPredict is a low-code machine learning library that allows you to run up to 40 baseline models with two lines of code. It’s because it works surprisingly well. The coolest part is that it uses Sklearn, which allows you to get the models, see what works best for you, and hypertune it as you would usually do.

```python
# Importing the packages that we will use
import lazypredict
from lazypredict.Supervised import LazyClassifier

# Running all the models
clf = LazyClassifier(verbose=0,ignore_warnings=True)
models, predictions = clf.fit(X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test)
models
```

**References**
------------
[1]  
[2]