# Day 287 of ML 

## Plotting with Seaborn - Heatmaps , 


### Heatmap 

It's a visual way to display a table of numbers. With tabular data it can be hard to see what features have high or low values, in their relationship to another feature, compared to the rest. Seaborn's heatmap will accept missing values but show blank squares, so to avoid it fill na with 0. By default 0 gets mapped to the darkest color and max value gets lightest color. 

Most common use is to plot correlations . If you want to draw attention to the positive correlation, choose an appropriate palette color. Human eye is likely to be drawn to darker colors first which is opposite of the default. Seaborn has 170 different color palettes 

You cna also annotate values in every square. Default has scientific notation format. It's usually better to let seaborn automatically decide the color of the font in annotations.


```python
import seaborn as sns
sns.set_style('whitegrid')
df.corr() 
sns.heatmap(df.corr())
sns.heatmap(df[[col1,col2]],cmap = "Blues" ) # One color that varies from lightest to darrkest shade
sns.heatmap(df.corr(),cmap = "RdBu", center=0 ) # A diverging color palette - Red down Blue up.
# Maps white to 0 ass the center. You can set vmin and vmax as -1,1 to make sure the scale on the right shows this range
sns.heatmap(df.corr(),cmap = "RdBu", annot=True,fmt=".0f", annot_kws={'fontsize': 3,'color':'black'}) 

# put a line between the squares, which are usualy rectangles
sns.heatmap(df.corr(), linewidths=1, linecolor="black", square=True)
# Add ticklabels - xticklabels =False , yticklabels = labels 

```



### Clustermap

It is a heat map that also does clustering using dendrograms(HAC -  hierarchical agglomerative clustering) and shows you which features are similar to each other or how far away they are as vectors. You'll notice that the size will be too large, so change it to a smaller size, maybe by choosing the number of items on the axes. Columns can be reordered . make sure to scale your data because different features will have different magnitudes and that can screw up the heatmap. 

* Metric helps you choose how you measure the distance between points -  euclidean/manhattan etc., 
* Linkage - single- compare closest point in cluster and choose to put the point in the cluster. Complete will compare with farthest point in the clusters and pick the one  

Might take a while to run if you have really large matrix 

```python
import seaborn as sns
sns.set_style('whitegrid')
sns.clustermap(df,figsize=(4,4),annot=True)# Will show the values in each square 
sns.clustermap(df,figsize=(4,4),annot=True,standard_scale=1,method='single',metric='cityblock')

# row_colours = df[col] if a categorical feature can be used to choose a color and show them together 

```



###  Bar Plot

One variable is categorical while the other variable usually on the y axis is numeric
Seaborn will group categorical variables and then choose the mean value in each group as the height of the bar plot. Then it uses a process called bootstrapping to get the confidence interval. This means smaller random samples whose means are calculated and we ensure 95% of those means are contained within the confidence interval estimates .  `ci=None` will skip this step . You can choose to do mean or std or max etc.,

if you have a second categorical variable, use the hue column. choose the order of displaying the bars as well. By default it chooses blue, orange and green for the colors .  `c='darklslateblue'` all of them are in same color. `edgecolor='mediumblue'`

For stacked bar plot, stick with pandas, since it requires a bit of code with seaborn 

```python
import seaborn as sns
sns.set_style('whitegrid')
sns.barplot(x=cat_col1,y=num_col2, data=df,ci=95 , estimator=np.std, hue=cat_col2, order=[] )

```




### 

```python
import seaborn as sns
sns.set_style('whitegrid')


f()
```



### 

```python
import seaborn as sns
sns.set_style('whitegrid')


f()
```

**References**
------------
[1]  
[2]