# Day 289 of ML 

## Jupyter notebooks - Tips and shortcuts 


* `%` is the magic command that runs only on a single line
* `%%` is also the magic command but can run on multiple lines in a cell
* `%matplotlib inline` is used to display plots onto the notebook directly and `%matplotlib widget` that enables your plots to be interactive. Helps you zoom in
* `%%time` to check code execution time in that cell
* `%autosave 120` if you want to autosave your notebook every 120 seconds 
* `%who` is especially useful to check what are some of the running variables currently stored in-memory.
* You can run an external Python script using the `%run <FILENAME.py>` magic command
* To copy and paste a block of code to an external file, say as a Python script,do this by using `%%writefile <FILENAME.py>` 
* Similar to cat in any unix-based OS, we have the `%pycat <FILENAME.py>` to print out the content of any file. 
* We can further inspect our variable of interest using `%pinfo <VARIABLE>`
* If you have multiple data across notebooks that need to be shared, you can easily do so by using the `%store <var_name>` command and retrieve it in another notebook using `%store -r <var_name>`
* **Listing all available magic command by running `%lsmagic`**
* Use a semicolon at the end of a statement to suppress an annoying output.
* Use `tqdm` for progress bars and loops to keep track of your runtime
* Hit `Tab` for autofill and `Shift+Tab` for documentation. alternatively, `?str.replace()` use a question mark before the method and run it
* Hit `esc` and then M to turn cell into mrkdown and Y to turn it back to code 
* To display mutliple object values in the came cell instead of using print, useful if you ant to see df.head and tail in the same cell output

        from Ipython.core.interactive shell import InteractiveShell
        InteractiveShell.ast_node_interativity = "all"

* To add pictures , make it a markdown cell and then just drag and drop. Some code will appear, Execute it.
*  To sound an alarm when you code finishes execution

```python
# Windows
import winsound
duration = 1000  #milliseconds
freq = 440  #Hz
winsound.Beep(freq, duration)

# Mac
import os
os.system('say "your program has finished"')
```


```python
from IPython.display import Markdown, display
def printmd(string, color=None):
    colorstr = "<span style='color:{}'>{}</span>".format(color, string)
    display(Markdown(colorstr))

printmd("**bold and blue**", color="blue")

```

* 

### Installs 


* Speedup code `!pip install cython fortran-magic` and then load `%load_ext Cython` or `%load_ext fortran-magic`  to use the decorator `%%Cython`  over a method in a cell

* Matplotlib widget 

        conda install -c conda-forge ipympl
        jupyter nbextension enable --py widgetsnbextension

* **nbextensions** - Jupyter-contrib extensions is a family of extensions which give Jupyter a lot more functionality, including e.g. jupyter spell-checker and code-formatter.

`pip install jupyter_contrib_nbextensions && jupyter contrib nbextension install` Activate the extensions by clicking them. These are added as buttons to the notebook toolbar

        !pip install https://github.com/ipython-contrib/jupyter_contrib_nbextensions/tarball/master 
        !pip install jupyter_nbextensions_configurator 
        !jupyter contrib nbextension install --user 
        !jupyter nbextensions_configurator enable --user


* Auto - code formatter `%load_ext nb_black`



## Alternate uses

**As PPT**

* Firstly, install RISE using conda: `conda install -c damianavila82 rise` or `pip install RISE` and then run `jupyter-nbextension install rise --py --sys-prefix jupyter-nbextension enable rise --py --sys-prefix`
* Enter/Exit RISE Slideshow button appears in the notebook toolbar. A slideshow option will also appear under View>Cell Toolbar>Slideshow
* To prepare Slideshow click on View>Cell Toolbar>Slideshow and select the jupyter notebook cells for each slide.
* After selecting each slide click on the RISE Slideshow button in the notebook toolbar

**References**
------------
[1]  https://towardsdatascience.com/jupyter-notebook-as-a-product-dc9d1c138e3a. 
[2]  https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-effortlessly-optimize-jupyter-notebooks-e864162a06ee.   
[3]  https://towardsdatascience.com/15-tips-and-tricks-for-jupyter-notebook-that-will-ease-your-coding-experience-e469207ac95c. 
[4]  https://forums.fast.ai/t/jupyter-notebook-enhancements-tips-and-tricks/17064  
[5]  https://www.dataquest.io/blog/jupyter-notebook-tips-tricks-shortcuts/ 
