# Day 256 of ML 


The expectation for full-stack data scientists comes from the fact that their development and production environments are vastly different. It continues to discuss two steps of the solutions to bridge the gap between these two environments: the first step is containerization and the second step is infrastructure abstraction. There are many differences between the dev and prod environments, but the two key differences that force data scientists to know two sets of tools for the two environments are scale and state.

Container technology, including Docker, is designed to help you recreate dev environments in production. With Docker, you create a Dockerfile with step-by-step instructions on how to recreate an environment in which your model can run – e.g. install this package, download this pretrained model, set environment variables, navigate into a folder, etc. These instructions allow hardware anywhere to run your code. When you have multiple containers with multiple instances, you might need to set up a network for them to communicate and share resources. You might also need a container orchestration tool to manage them and maintain high availability. Kubernetes is exactly that. It can help you spin up containers on more instances when you need more compute/memory as well as shutting down containers when you no longer need them.

Workflow orchestration: Airflow vs. Prefect vs. Argo  
Infrastructure abstraction: Kubeflow vs. Metaflow  

Infrastructure abstraction tools like Kubeflow and Metaflow aim to help you run the workflow in both dev and prod environments by abstracting away infrastructure boilerplate code usually needed to run Airflow or Argo. They promise to give data scientists access to the full compute power of the prod environment from local notebooks, which effectively allows data scientists to use the same code in both dev and prod environments.

Comparison of various workflow orchestration and infrastructure tools, including Airflow, Argo, Prefect, Kubeflow, and Metaflow.



**References**
------------
[1] https://huyenchip.com/2021/09/13/data-science-infrastructure.html
[2] https://eugeneyan.com/writing/end-to-end-data-science/
[3] https://multithreaded.stitchfix.com/blog/2019/03/11/FullStackDS-Generalists/