# Day 258 of ML 


#H3 

We decided to create H3 to combine the benefits of a hexagonal global grid system with a hierarchical indexing system.

A global grid system usually requires at least two things: a map projection and a grid laid on top of the map. A map projection is needed for going from a three-dimensional location on Earth to a two dimensional point on a map. A grid is then overlaid on the map, forming a global grid system.

This process can be accomplished in innumerable ways by combining different map projections and grids, for example, the widely recognized Mercator projection and a square grid. While this simple method would work, it has a number of drawbacks. To start, the Mercator projection has significant size distortion, so some cells will have vastly different areas. Square grids also have drawbacks, requiring multiple sets of coefficients when used for analysis. This disadvantage is a result of squares having two different types of neighbors, one type with which they share an edge (in the four cardinal directions) and another type with which they share a vertex (in four diagonal directions).

For map projection, we chose to use gnomonic projections centered on icosahedron faces. This projects from Earth as a sphere to an icosahedron, a twenty-sided platonic solid. An icosahedron-based map projection results in twenty separate two-dimensional planes rather than a single plane. The icosahedron can be unfolded in many ways, producing a two-dimensional map each time. H3, however, does not unfold the icosahedron to build its grid system, and instead lays its grid out on the icosahedron faces themselves, forming a geodesic discrete global grid system.

 hexagons have only one distance between a hexagon centerpoint and its neighbors’, compared to two distances for squares or three distances for triangles. This property greatly simplifies performing analysis and smoothing over gradients.

The basic functions of the H3 library are for indexing locations, which transforms latitude and longitude pairs to a 64-bit H3 index, identifying a grid cell. The function geoToH3 takes a latitude, longitude, and resolution (between 0 and 15, with 0 being coarsest and 15 being finest), and returns an index. h3ToGeo and h3ToGeoBoundary are the inverse of this function, providing the center coordinates and outline of the grid cell specified by the H3 index, respectively.


Neighboring hexagons have the useful property of approximating circles using the grid system. The kRing function provides grid cells within grid distance k of an origin index.

# S2 

The S2 library defines a framework for decomposing the unit sphere into a hierarchy of cells. Each cell is a quadrilateral bounded by four geodesics. The top level of the hierarchy is obtained by projecting the six faces of a cube onto the unit sphere, and lower levels are obtained by subdividing each cell into four children recursively. Notice that the cell edges appear to be curved; this is because they are spherical geodesics, i.e., straight lines on the sphere (similar to the routes that airplanes fly).

Each cell in the hierarchy has a level, defined as the number of times the cell has been subdivided (starting with a face cell). Cells levels range from 0 to 30. The smallest cells at level 30 are called leaf cells; there are 6 * 430 of them in total, each about 1cm across on the Earth’s surface. 

The S2 hierarchy is useful for spatial indexing and for approximating regions as a collection of cells. Cells can be used to represent both points and regions: points are generally represented as leaf cells, while regions are represented as collections of cells at any level(s)

Each cell is uniquely identified by a 64-bit S2CellId. The S2 cells are numbered in a special way in order to maximize locality of reference when they are used for spatial indexing (compared to other methods of numbering the cells). In particular, the S2 cells are ordered sequentially along a space-filling curve (a type of fractal). The particular curve used by S2 is called the S2 space-filling curve, and consists of six Hilbert curves linked together to form a single continuous loop over the entire sphere

The S2 curve is based on the Hilbert curve. The Hilbert curve is a function from the unit interval [0,1] to the unit square [0,1]×[0,1] that is space-filling, meaning that it visits every point in the unit square. The Hilbert curve is continuous but not differentiable, and can be considered to have infinite length.

As you can see, the first iteration divides the unit square into 4 smaller squares. The curve visits those squares in a particular order that looks like an inverted “U” (figure 1). The second iteration takes each square from the first iteration and divides it into 4 smaller subsquares. The curve again visits those subsquares in a U-shaped order, except that some of the U-shapes have been rotated and/or reflected in order to link the curves together seamlessly 

The S2 Python interfaces uses SWIG to interact with the C++ code

**References**
------------
[1]  https://eng.uber.com/h3/
[2]  https://s2geometry.io
