# Day 63 of ML 

## Missing Values - KNNImputer


There are three types of missing values

* **MCAR** - Missing completely at random - MCAR occurs when the missing on the variable is completely unsystematic. When our dataset is missing values completely at random, the probability of missing data is unrelated to any other variable and unrelated to the variable with missing values itself. For example, MCAR would occur when data is missing because the responses to a research survey about depression are lost in the mail.
* **MAR** - Missing at random - MAR occurs when the probability of the missing data on a variable is related to some other measured variable but unrelated to the variable with missing values itself. For example, the data values are missing because males are less likely to respond to a depression survey. In this case, the missing data is related to the gender of the respondents. However, the missing data is not related to the level of depression itself.
* **MNAR** - Missign not at random - MNAR occurs when the missing values on a variable are related to the variable with the missing values itself. In this case, the data values are missing because the respondents failed to fill in the survey due to their level of depression

One thing to note here is that the KNN Imputer does not recognize text data values. It will generate errors if we do not change these values to numerical values. 

Another critical point here is that the KNN Imptuer is a distance-based imputation method and it requires us to normalize our data. Otherwise, the different scales of our data will lead the KNN Imputer to generate biased replacements for the missing values.




```python

from sklearn.impute import KNNImputer
imputer = KNNImputer(n_neighbors=5)
df = pd.DataFrame(imputer.fit_transform(df),columns = df.columns)


```


**References**
------------
[1]  https://medium.com/@kyawsawhtoon/a-guide-to-knn-imputation-95e2dc496e
[2]
